---
title:      "OpenLoco version 23.10"
tagline:    "Exciting new developments in the release's blog post!"
author:     "Aaron van Geffen"
date:       2023-10-25 22:58:20 +0900
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news
---

OpenLoco v23.10 is out! Despite part of the team being on holiday, some big changes have made it in this month!
We hope you'll like the October release as much as we do. Anyway, without further ado, let's dive into the most major changes...

## Switch codebase to C++20 (#1843, #2136, #2144)

Pretty much since the project got started, we've been adhering to the C++17 standard. This allowed us to
use modern C++, including the modern filesystem classes. However, as the name C++20 suggests, a new
standard has been out for a while. There were a few blockers that prevented us from switching, however.
This month, the last blockers were resolved by @Duncanspumpkin and @ZehMatt, and so we can now compile
the entire codebase as C++20!

Happily, this also removed the need to use a 3rd-party library for `span` support, as we can now
just use the C++ standard library for this. Code-wise, we look forward to using more C++20 types everywhere,
which should make our lives a little easier.

## Add filters to Build Vehicle window (#2148)

One of the frequent remarks we got from players, is how tedious it can be to find the right components
when building a vehicle. This month, @AaronVanGeffen set out to make this easier. The Build Vehicle
window now allows you to filter vehicle components by powered/unpowered types, as well as supported cargo.
If that isn't enough, you can even search for vehicle components by name. We hope this will help in
your vehicle-building needs!

PS: It's already been suggested we add these new filters to the Object Selection window as well.
We can't do this easily yet, but it's on our List of Things To Do.

## Add cheat to remove station loading penalty for long vehicles (#2151)

A dedicated part of the game's fan base is eager to make rich dioramas with very long vehicles.
Long-time players have relied on the 'Long Station Patch' to make stations that can actually accommodate
such long vehicles. For various reasons, OpenLoco cannot provide these newer limits *yet*.
However, as a compromise, players can now choose to disable the slow (un)loading that would be the
result of stationing overly long vehicles in shorter stations. Thanks, @LeftOfZen!
We hope this will allow more players to enjoy OpenLoco, even without longer stations.

## Use global game state everywhere (#2129, #2131, #2132, #2133, #2137, #2139, #2142, #2145)

When the project was started, the idea of the `loco_global` struct was conceived: a high-level wrapper around
a particular memory address. This ensured that we could start using strongly typed C++ from the get go,
instead of having to rely on raw addresses for longer. After, we introduced a `GameState` struct that encompasses
the memory space dealing with, in effect, how the landscape and everything in it is stored.

This month, @memellis has continued working on reducing the number of these `loco_global` variables
in the codebase, by making these code use of the global `GameState` instead. As we wrote last month,
this is an important task that needs to be completed before we can start looking at increasing the
in-game limits of OpenLoco, and it improves the structure of the codebase.

At this point, there are very few `loco_global` variables left that can be replaced with a `GameState`
reference. There are plenty other `loco_global`s remaining, though. Most of these have to do with more
transient variables, though, such as anything to do with UI. As most of the code paths involved are no
longer shared with vanilla, we can look into integrating these soon.

## Demystifying the Locomotion AI (#2052)

Locomotion's AI companies are responsible for some of the most contrived, spaghetti-like transport
networks in game. However, before we can improve on this, we first have to understand and reimplement
the existing AI. @Duncanspumpkin has set out to do exactly that. It's been rather tedious to do,
so don't expect an improved AI in the immediate future. However, progress is progress, and we're
happy Duncan's on the job!
