---
title:      "OpenLoco version 24.01"
tagline:    "The first release of the new year!"
author:     "Aaron van Geffen"
date:       2024-01-14 15:50:20 +0100
layout:     single
classes:    wide
categories: news
---

OpenLoco v24.01 is out! We hope you are looking back on a very nice holiday period, and
that you are off to a good start of the year! We started off the year with new energy,
reimplementing a bunch of routines in C++, and getting around to some oft-requested
features and enhancements. As always, please find the
[changelog](https://github.com/OpenLoco/OpenLoco/blob/v24.01/CHANGELOG.md)
on GitHub, and a write-up of major developments below.

## Mountain tool game command implementation (#2167)

Our work on reimplementing the game commands continues. This month, we've finally tackled
the mountain tool game command! Like most of the remaining game command functions, this was
a complex beast to reimplement. However, it was definitely worth doing, as we'll elaborate on
in the next section.

We have now reimplemented 55 out of 84 game commands in C++. The remaining commands are
huge functions to undertake, so the implementation pace has slowed down a bit. However,
reimplementing them is a necessity for stable multiplayer, so it's a worthy cause!

## Terraform tool improvements (#2228, #2243)

In Locomotion, the terraform tools were limited to 10x10 tiles. As of this month, OpenLoco
reimplements all terraform tools in C++, making it possible to increase the tool sizes without
unintentional side-effects. We didn't just increase them a little: the new limit is 64x64 tiles!

We didn't stop there. Now that the mountain tool has been reimplemented, we've made it possible
to use it with a variable table size! Previously, the mountain tool would be activated by
minimizing the land tool all the way, giving you a mountain with a 1x1 table. We have now
changed this such that you can activate mountain slopes for all tool sizes! Enjoy!

Lastly, we've changed the way the land style 'paint' tool works. The land style selector is
now hidden until the paint tool is activated. In addition, the tool no longer confusingly
inherits corner selection from the general land tool. We hope this leads to more intuitive
use of the land style paint tool.

## Make viewport see-through flags more granular (#2231)

The way hiding viewport elements works in Locomotion has often been suggested for improvement.
Our codebase is now in such a state where we could finally rework this. The see-through flags
are now more granular and no longer group several kinds of tile elements together.
For example, you can now decide to only hide train tracks, or indeed only hide roads.
Similarly, there are now separate flags for buildings, trees, and scenery objects.

This means the viewport menu replaces two old items with five new items. Previously, the
viewport shortcuts matched these positions. For consistency, the viewport shortcuts have
therefore been reassigned. Existing shortcut configurations will not be updated, however.
We recommend you review or reset the shortcut settings to make optimal use of the new flags.

Aside from the refined granularity, the see-through flags now apply to the entire viewport,
rather than only the bottom half. We hope this will make the flags more convenient to use as well.

## Refactor config reading and writing (#2229, #2230)

To keep track of user preferences for the extra options introduced by OpenLoco, we introduced
YAML-formatted user config files back in 2018. While the underlying library we used has been
updated a few times since, our config handling code has remained more or less the same since,
save for adding more and more options on top.

This month, we have reworked the config reading and writing code. This has made the code more
flexible with respect to invalid or missing configurations. Perhaps more importantly, the code
defers logic to such an extent that it is easier to maintain and extend in the future.

## Turn window-specific handleInput functions into keyUp events (#2232)

The recent few months saw an influx of new search/text fields to major game windows, such as
the Build Vehicle and Object Selection windows. The way we handled key presses to be passed
to the windows wasn't the prettiest, however. This month, we completely refactored this,
turning the respective `handleInput` events into proper `keyUp` window events. This makes
things much more maintainable, and indeed easier to add such events in the future.

## Refactor and split up the Input namespace (#2246, #2247)

The changes to key input handling discussed in the previous section cleaned up the Input
namespace quite a bit. However, it also revealed plenty more work to be done, separating core
input logic from gameplay functions. We started by moving screenshot trigger logic out of the
Input namespace, and moved a bunch of viewport interaction code to its own code unit as well.
More to be done in the future, but this kind of cleanup is very rewarding to do. Stay tuned!
